\chapter{Conclusion and Future Work}
The primary of this work was to study algebraic structures in proof assistant
systems. To define the scope the work we do a survey on coverage of algebraic on
four proof assistant systems that are Agda, Idris, Coq and Lean. The thesis
shows how to define a structure with some of its constructs and properties in
Agda. We divide this into three main chapters based on closeness of structures
that is quasigroup and loop, semigroup and ring, and Kleene algebra. We then
analyze five problems that arises when defining algebraic structures in proof
systems.

In section ~\ref{contribution}, we summarize the contributions of this work and
how it refers to the research outline described in Chapter 1. Section
~\ref{future} discuss some extensions or future work of this work. 

\section{Summary of contributions}
\label{contribution}
Universal algebra is a well studied and evolving branch of mathematics. Proof
systems are useful in automated reasoning and becoming popular in research and
applications more than ever. With introduction to universal algebra in Chapter 1
and Agda in Chapter 2, Chapter 3 provides an overview of quantitative use of
algebraic structures in proof assistant systems. We create a clickable table
that takes to the definition of structures in the standard libraries of the
systems studied (Agda, Idris, Lean and Coq).

This leads to define the scope of contribution to Agda standard library. Chapter
5 is dedicated to study the structures quasigroup, loop and their variations.
Chapter 6 provides an overview of semigroup and ring structures with their
properties and morphisms. Chapter 7 is dedicated to study of Kleene algebra and
it's properties in Agda. Along with these structures, we define structures
unital magma, invertible magma, invertible unital magma, idempotent magma,
alternate magma, flexible magma, semimedial magma, medial magma, with their
direct products and morphisms.

Our approach of defining these structures led us to analyze the problems such as
ambiguity in naming, equivalent and identical structures. Chapter 8 discuss how
these problems becomes more evident in proof systems that might be ignored in
classical 'pen-and-paper' technique.

\section{Future work}
\label{future}
Our work can be extended in different ways. The direct products defined in this
thesis do not clearly differentiate between direct products, products and
co-products of algebraic structures. There is currently discussion on Agda
standard library to overcome this issue, but the changes are yet to come. This
work will rely on human efforts in building strong libraries in field of
abstract algebra. A more robust and reliable generative library will be helpful
to reduce human efforts. 