\chapter{Introduction}
Abstract algebra is the study of algebraic structure that came into existence in
the early nineteenth century as complex problems and solutions evolved in other
branches of mathematics such as geometry, number theory, and polynomial
equations. With the growing help of technology, mathematicians are more indulged
in automated reasoning. Increasing powers of computers and software tools that
help towards automated reasoning become useful in their research. Although the
proof systems that support first-order logic are successful, developing a tool
that supports higher order logic is complex and requires carefully defining
mathematical objects and concepts \cite{phillips2010automated}. Proof assistant
systems act as a bridge between computer intelligence and human effort in
developing mathematical proofs. Agda, Coq, Isabelle, Lean, and Idris are some
commonly used proof assistant systems. Mathematicians use these proof assistants
to check their proof for validity, build proofs and sometimes even generate them
via proof search tools. For the scope of the thesis, we only discuss types of
algebraic structures in proof systems.

For any software system to be robust, all its dependencies must similarly be
robust. The standard libraries of these systems should support the user with all
necessary functionalities to be able to use the system easily without having to
define all functionalities. The paper \cite{BuildingDiamond} explore techniques
to generate libraries with minimum human effort. However, while their methods do
work in theory, they are difficult (and expensive) in practice. Although
generated libraries can define the algebraic concepts, they are not fully
reliable and hence not considered as "standard library" for any proof system.
For now, building standard libraries for proof systems relies on human efforts.
This led to the question of what is the current scope of algebraic structures in
the standard libraries of proof assistant systems. A survey of the coverage of
algebraic structure in the standard libraries of proof assistant systems can
help us understand which algebraic structures are already supported by various
proof assistants, and which structures are still missing. This information can
help researchers identify gaps in existing proof assistants and guide future
development. A survey was conducted to better understand the coverage of algebra
in four proof systems Agda, Idris, Lean, and Coq. Agda was one such system where
there was better scope to contribute to the standard library. \footnote{I was
exposed to Agda during course work for my Master's degree, further adding bias
to choosing Agda over other systems}

Agda is widely used by mathematicians and computer scientists for research
purposes. Contributing certain algebraic structures and theorems to Agda would
help researchers to explore new domains by building upon the existing
definitions and theorems easily. The Agda standard library follows algebra
hierarchy that stats with Magma as the initial structure from which other
structures are defined. Figure \ref{fig_magma} shows the algebra hierarchy from
magma to group. A magma is a set $S$ with a binary operation $∙$ such that,
$\forall x,y \in S, (x ∙ y) \in S$. A magma with associativity is called a
semigroup. A Magma with division operation is called a quasigroup.

The definitions of constructs like homomorphism and direct product is given to
us by universal algebra. Universal algebra provides a common framework by
abstracting out the specific definitions and properties of algebraic structures.
It helps us to study the commonalities of algebraic structures and define their
constructs. An algebra in universal algebra is defined as an ordered pair
$(S,F)$ where $S$ is a set and $F = (F_i:i\in I)$ is a finitary operations on A
for some indexing set $I$ \cite{sannella2012foundations}. Certain constructs
like morphisms and direct product help us to relate different mathematical
objects and structures in a systematic and rigorous way. Morphisms, for example,
allow us to understand how different mathematical objects are related to one
another. Direct product, on the other hand, is a useful tool for combining
mathematical structures, such as groups, rings, or vector spaces, to create new
and more complex structures that retain many of the desirable properties of the
original structures. This allows us to study and understand larger, more complex
systems and their properties.

\section{Research Outline}
 A survey
was conducted to better understand the coverage of algebra in four proof systems
Agda, Idris, Lean, and Coq. Agda was one such system where there was better
scope to contribute to the standard library. \footnote{I was exposed to Agda
during course work for my Master's degree, further adding bias to choosing Agda
over other systems} 

As part of this thesis, more than twenty-three types of algebraic structures
have been defined in the standard library for Agda. Inspired by the ways
algebraic structures are used in research, in this work we explore capturing a
select subset of them in Agda standard library. Following the algebra hierarchy
in Figure ~\ref{fig_magma}, we study magma with division operation that is
quasigroup and loop structures. We also explore various types of loop such as
bol-loop and moufang-loop and their properties. Semigroups are used in various
fields such as probability theory and formal systems. One of the most commonly
studied algebraic structure is Ring. In this thesis we study types of rings such
as near-ring, quasi-ring, and non-associative ring. Along with ring structure,
the most used structure is Kleene algebra. The applications of Kleene algebra
are seen in finite state machines, regular expressions and other branches of
computer science. As part of this thesis, we study Kleene algebra by providing
proofs for its properties that may be used in developing other systems or
applications. By contributing to Agda standard library, we hope that this work
will be used by others. 

Notably, as we explore capturing these structures in Agda, we analyze five
problems that arise:
\begin{enumerate}
\item Ambiguity in naming structures.
\item Equivalent structures that are structurally different.
\item Redundant field during structural inheritance.
\item Identical structures that can be derived in many ways in algebra hierarchy
\item Equivalent structures that are structurally the same.
\end{enumerate}

\section{Thesis Outline}
Chapters 2 and 3 focus on the background information necessary for reading this
work, focusing on reviewing universal algebra and algebraic structures in Agda,
respectively. Chapter 4 justifies the scope of the thesis contribution through a
survey on algebraic coverage in proof systems. The next three chapters 5,6 and 7
are dedicated to discussing the structures in detail. Chapter 5 explores
quasigroup and loop structures that use division operation. Chapter 6 discusses
the properties of semigroup and ring with variations of the ring structure. Chapter
7 explores Kleene algebra, definition, construct and properties in Agda. Chapter
8 describes the various problems we faced during this work, as well as advice on
handling common issues in programming algebras in proof systems. Finally,
Chapter 9 concludes this work with notes on related future works and some
closing thoughts.
